README.md, before:

# `bevy-baked-gi`

Tooling to support precomputed global illumination for the Bevy game engine.

## Introduction

This crate, `bevy-baked-gi`, provides a workflow for *baked* global illumination
in Bevy, using three well-established techniques: *lightmapping*, *irradiance
volumes*, and *reflection probes*. [Global illumination] enhances the realism of
rendered scenes by modeling the effects of multiple light bounces; as a simple
example, GI allows objects next to a red wall to appear red.  Generally, GI is
expensive to simulate, so a popular technique is to precompute the lighting for
static elements of a scene to allow for fast approximation of global
illumination at runtime. This crate provides straightforward Bevy tooling to
support these three common methods.

It's important to note that *neither this crate nor Bevy itself provides any
built-in lightmapper*. You'll need to precompute the lightmaps for your scenes
using a tool external to Bevy. Fortunately, `bevy-baked-gi` provides a
convenient tool, `export-blender-gi`, that allows for the use of [Blender]
(optionally with [The Lightmapper] addon) to bake global illumination.

## Tooling

The following tool may be useful for baking lightmaps.

### `export-blender-gi`

`bevy-baked-gi` comes with a command-line tool called `export-blender-gi` that
you can apply to a Blender `.blend` file to convert baked irradiance volumes and
reflection probes from Blender's native format into a native Bevy `.scn.ron`
asset. For cubemap reflection probes, the tool uses a [fork] of the [glTF IBL
Sampler] to preprocess the cubemap images into diffuse and specular parts, so
they can be used just as environment maps are used in Bevy.

### glTF Unity Lightmapper

Within the UnityAssets directory there is an experimental [Unity] plugin to
allow for using Unity's [Progressive Lightmapper] (or another tool, like
[Bakery]) to bake the lighting for scenes. Please note that this plugin is
highly experimental.

### Other tools

In case you want to bake the lightmaps using a tool other than Blender and
Unity, a detailed description of the lightmap and irradiance volume format
is available in the Bevy documentation.

## License

Dual-licensed under the MIT and Apache 2.0 license. See the `LICENSE-MIT` and
`LICENSE-APACHE2` files.

## Code of conduct

`bevy-baked-gi` follows the same code of conduct as Rust itself. Reports can be
made to the project authors.

[Global illumination]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_illumination

[Blender]: https://www.blender.org/

[The Lightmapper]: https://github.com/Naxela/The_Lightmapper

[glTF]: https://www.khronos.org/gltf/

[Cycles' built-in baking]: https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/render/cycles/baking.html

[fork]: https://github.com/pcwalton/glTF-IBL-Sampler

[glTF IBL Sampler]: https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-IBL-Sampler

[Unity]: http://unity.com/

[Progressive Lightmapper]: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/progressive-lightmapper.html

[Bakery]: https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/tools/level-design/bakery-gpu-lightmapper-122218

[the documentation]: Docs/

Commit message:

Add a new Blender add-on for an artist-friendly GI exporting workflow

README.md, after:

# `bevy-baked-gi`

Tooling to support precomputed global illumination for the Bevy game engine.

## Introduction

This crate, `bevy-baked-gi`, provides a workflow for *baked* global illumination
in Bevy, using three well-established techniques: *lightmapping*, *irradiance
volumes*, and *reflection probes*. [Global illumination] enhances the realism of
rendered scenes by modeling the effects of multiple light bounces; as a simple
example, GI allows objects next to a red wall to appear red.  Generally, GI is
expensive to simulate, so a popular technique is to precompute the lighting for
static elements of a scene to allow for fast approximation of global
illumination at runtime. This crate provides straightforward Bevy tooling to
support these three common methods.

It's important to note that *neither this crate nor Bevy itself provides any
built-in lightmapper*. You'll need to precompute the lightmaps for your scenes
using a tool external to Bevy. Fortunately, `bevy-baked-gi` provides a
convenient tool, `export-blender-gi`, that allows for the use of [Blender]
(optionally with [The Lightmapper] addon) to bake global illumination.

## Tooling

The following tools may be useful for baking global illumination.

### The `export-blender-gi` CLI tool

`bevy-baked-gi` comes with a command-line tool called `export-blender-gi` that
you can apply to a Blender `.blend` file to convert baked irradiance volumes and
cube reflection probes from Blender's native format into a native Bevy `.scn.ron`
asset. For cubemap reflection probes, the tool uses a [fork] of the [glTF IBL
Sampler] to preprocess the cubemap images into diffuse and specular parts, so
they can be used just as environment maps are used in Bevy.

Note that you must bake the light probes before the tool is able to export them.
In the Eevee renderer, use the button "Render → Indirect Lighting → Bake
Indirect Lighting".

### The "Bevy Global Illumination Export" Blender add-on

An artist-friendly UI wrapping the above `export-blender-gi` tool is available
as a Blender add-on. To install it, navigate to "Preferences → Add-ons →
Install…" and open the `BlenderAddons/export-bevy-gi/export-bevy-gi.py` script.
In the add-on preferences, locate the pre-built `export-blender-gi` or
`export-blender-gi.exe`. You can then export baked irradiance volumes and cube
reflection probes with the "File → Export → Bevy Global Illumination (.scn.ron)"
menu item. You'll need to bake the light probes (in Eevee, "Render → Indirect
Lighting → Bake Indirect Lighting") and save the `.blend` file first.

### glTF Unity Lightmapper

Within the UnityAssets directory there is an experimental [Unity] plugin to
allow for using Unity's [Progressive Lightmapper] (or another tool, like
[Bakery]) to bake the lighting for scenes. Please note that this plugin is
highly experimental.

### Other tools

In case you want to bake the lightmaps using a tool other than Blender and
Unity, a detailed description of the lightmap and irradiance volume format
is available in the Bevy documentation.

## License

Dual-licensed under the MIT and Apache 2.0 license. See the `LICENSE-MIT` and
`LICENSE-APACHE2` files.

## Code of conduct

`bevy-baked-gi` follows the same code of conduct as Rust itself. Reports can be
made to the project authors.

[Global illumination]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_illumination

[Blender]: https://www.blender.org/

[The Lightmapper]: https://github.com/Naxela/The_Lightmapper

[glTF]: https://www.khronos.org/gltf/

[Cycles' built-in baking]: https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/render/cycles/baking.html

[fork]: https://github.com/pcwalton/glTF-IBL-Sampler

[glTF IBL Sampler]: https://github.com/KhronosGroup/glTF-IBL-Sampler

[Unity]: http://unity.com/

[Progressive Lightmapper]: https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/progressive-lightmapper.html

[Bakery]: https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/tools/level-design/bakery-gpu-lightmapper-122218

[the documentation]: Docs/
